te now says it will impose restrictions
on exports to Israel until it reaches a
ceasefire with Hamas Israel called it a
unilateral violation of trade agreements
and has promised to respond these new
measures come a day after Israel
declined Anchor's request to airdrop Aid
into
Gaza we had submitted a request to
participate in the humanitarian Aid
operations with cargo planes of our Air
Force we've learned that this request
which was welcomed by the Jordanian
authorities was rejected by Israel there
can be no excuse for Israel to prevent
us from providing aerial Aid to starving
Garin in response to this situation we
have decided to take a series of new
measures against Israel well for more
let's speak to our correspondent cam
kolu she joins us now live from Istanbul
cam this is obviously a symbolic gesture
on the part of te but talk us through
the details what do these restrictions
relate to in terms of
exports
nasia this is the first significant
measure that turkey has imposed uh
against Israel since the beginning of
the war in October uh uh last year uh
the uh products uh that
include iron steel fertilizers chemicals
aluminum and many other mainly
Construction Products and I have to
remind that Israel is Turkey's third
biggest trade Partners so uh according
to the trade Ministry the exports and
imports have already declined within the
last 6 months around
33% B mainly Turkish exports to Israel
decline 4 to 3% already but uh let's
remember that these are all mostly
private uh sector experts uh to Israel
and they have uh declined without uh the
with without the government's uh
imposing on those companies so far but
uh one of the major uh incidents besides
Israel's rejection of turkey's air drop
uh uh to air drop Aid delivery to uh
Palestine is the backlash from the uh
Turkish Society mainly the is
pro-islamist young people who have been
demonstrating and who have been calling
out for boycott against Israeli products
that has actually found a ground among
the Turkish Society H as from right to
left uh when it comes to Palestine it's
a common issue people are very sensitive
and they have been they have been uh
individually boycotting some Israeli
products that have also led to decline
in the uh commodity products but of
course uh as I said Israel is Turkey's
largest trade partner and this is a big
step uh since uh Turkish foreign
minister fidan announced that uh the
measures will be effective immediately
in place as of this morning these the
menion products uh
54 uh materials uh products in
construction uh industry uh will not be
exported uh to Israel but of course
Israel has another chance for instance
Germany is another supplier but uh this
will be cost for Israel uh we will see
how it will end up as turkey says these
restrictions will be lifted as as soon
as a ceasefire is in place back to S
kolu there with the latest for us from
Istanbul well let's now get the view
from occupied East Jerusalem and speak
to Imran Khan Imran are you hearing
anything from the Israelis by way of
response here to
ankora well there's a very strong
response from the foreign minister of
Israel Israel cats who actually said ER
thean is once again sacrificing the
economic interests of the people of
turkey for his support of Hamas we will
respond accordingly and prepare an
extended list of additional products
that Israel will prevent turkey from
exporting he's actually also gone on to
say that Israel is going to appeal to
pro-israel countries and organizations
in the US to stop investments in turkey
and prevent the import of products from
Turkey it's also going to reach out to
friends in Congress to try and figure
out if isra if Turkey is actually in
violations of boycotts against Israel
and try and apply some sanctions on it
so a very tough response there from uh
Israel it R to be seen how quickly all
of that can take place ceasefire
negotiations like I say are taking place
they being downplayed by Hamas and uh by
Israel but they're certainly taking
place and any kind of trade boy boycotts
do take a long time to be able to put in
place so at the moment this is very much
a war of words what practical um element
it has on the ground whether it's an
immediate stoppage of trade between the
two countries let's see what happens in
the coming days Imran Khan there follow
that's spat for us from occupied East
Jerusalem thank you Iman